to start understanding what is really
the uh fundamental operation happen
inside those convolutional neuron
networks let me just start with a a
simple problem and this problem goes as
follows I have somewhere in this kind of
time axis a
signal uh this is uh the duration of
this signal and the shape of the signal
is not really important but what is
really important is the assumption that
I do know the shape of that signal and
let's assume that I have let's say call
this signal this signal X oft and ask
you the question as to can we come up
with a method that we can sort of
provide uh the location of that uh
signal where about in this uh buffer
let's say U uh of the signal is located
okay so a simple kind of approach that
we can think of is the following um
since we know the shape of this kind of
signal I can actually start at the
beginning of this uh buffer at this
location let say zero and for every um
uh position if you like uh the
hypothesis the you know that the buffer
is the signal is located at this
specific uh point and start making an
operation that will uh effectively means
uh taking the dot product between the
contents of that buffer and that
signal and uh uh this means that
multiplying every element of this buffer
with the amplitude let's say the
amplitude was one of the signal and
summing over all of the elements and so
if we do that then it's a whole bunch of
zeros time one then we will be getting a
result uh that it will uh be zero
evidently okay so that is we the zero
and we'll be getting in fact all zeros
results up to the point where we start
having uh my my hypo hypothetical kind
of a signal uh be right at the uh
location of that uh true location of
that kind of signal so uh after this
point as you can understand we going to
have some overlap between this signal
and this so we be starting getting some
nonzero results out of this of operation
and right where exactly the signal is
located right under it uh then we will
start getting a pick and then evidently
we'll start you know going back to zero
and so on and so on so this is basically
an approach if we take the AR Marx of
what this kind of operation this will be
let's say the uh uh tow the location
that sort of indicates the sort of uh
that we have predicted as far as this
kind of signal is
concerned so what we just did is an
example of what we call a onedimensional
correlation operation cross correlation
operation because we are trying to
correlate a hypothetical signal um
located in this hypoth over here against
some other signal the X oft so I will
actually call this uh simplistically
let's say y of T I'm actually
correlating X of T and Y of T and this
kind of correlation operation is able to
retrieve for me in this simple one
single dimensional kind of space uh the
location of X oft uh and this is exactly
what is been uh done uh in a kind of a
two-dimensional and three-dimensional
kind of uh space inside the convolution
kind of neuron Network in fact now what
we will do is we will um expand uh uh
into the another example of where we
have now this uh taxi image and we try
to understand how we will be able to
detect the presence of that kind of taxi
in that image but before we go there I
wanted to actually share with you uh
some details in our site where we have
if you like an Americal example conf
confusingly uh the true uh sort of
operation of what is actually called
convolution is implemented inside the
pytor tensor fls and so on all these
kind of machine learning Frameworks as
correlation operations and uh with the
exception that we actually flip uh the
uh in in the time domain that uh uh
signal uh y oft uh we are you know the
two operations as it actually clearly
shown uh in your in your s l later on
the two operations of convolution and
cor crosscorrelation result
into identical results and for the
purposes of our purposes from a pure
implementation uh efficiency C
perspective we always prefer to uh refer
to uh to implement them as cross
correlation despite the fact that we are
refer to refer to them as convolution
operations so let me uh go into um the
following kind of discussion now where
we have uh we are going back to that
kind of a taxi image and let me just uh
write over here if I kind of try to
squeeze it so this is our
image that we have seen earlier with
this Yellow Cab in the
middle and uh here I have uh right in
the middle a kind of a
taxi Okay so
all right and I ask you exactly the same
question uh how we can
potentially um detect uh this kind of
Taxi uh in this kind of image okay all
right uh and maybe the um uh I mean if
we have known the exact shape of this uh
uh object um like we have assumed
earlier uh then the operation actually
would be uh
straightforward we'll take this uh
template again uh we'll call it uh um y
now and we will start sliding uh this
kind of template across this kind of
image to be able to at some point where
the template is exactly uh present right
on top of that U object in the in the
image X we will then declare that that's
basically the location of that of of
that object um the problem however is
that in in this kind of approach we have
first assume that we will know exactly
the shape of that uh object which is not
realistic because uh the object is uh
definitely going to uh vary uh quite a
lot let's say the object may be rotated
translated in um uh sort of uh or or uh
being uh sort of uh because of the
lighting condition maybe not sort of
very evident it's exact shape it's
shadowed for example or uded by other
objects and the other um uh assumption
is that in terms of computational
efficiency uh the larger our kind of
prototype is in terms of number of
pixels the more expensive this kind of
operation becomes so in order to solve
these two problems uh what we will do uh
what we would suggest is uh we will not
abandon this kind of sliding operation
um that we will called cross correlation
a bit earlier but if in fact what we
will actually do now is we'll use a much
smaller prototype and we are now pH the
problem as to what is really the
contents of that uh sort of prototype
that we will be uh calling from now on a
kernel so let me just draw the kernel
over here and maybe I can start
answering the question as to what should
be the the contents of this kernel that
will be able to uh detect this um um cab
over here all right so uh this image is
extremely simple in fact it has uh zeros
in uh these pixels and um all the other
pixels which we have not drawn anything
are 255 so 255 corresponds to Pure White
and zero corresponds to Black so since I
have a black and white image I can um
suggest that uh maybe uh if I can
U uh have a Kel
who's uh
pixels so this is a kernel which is the
size of that is not necessarily
accidental it's uh 3x3 in this
case uh and if I um Locate over here in
this pixels I made them let's say zeros
and over here I made them 255 then you
can all understand that as I'm sliding
around this kind of Kernel I will
definitely go and at some point hit this
location over
here with this kernel and at that moment
in that location then I will be getting
some uh uh
definitely uh significant uh Peak if I
may call it like that out of my
crosscorrelation operation so we'll see
the details the mathematical details of
that cross correlation operation shortly
but that's basically what is um is going
to happen then and so exactly the same
thing will actually happen in this
location and potentially in this type of
locations and so on uh but I don't think
that we have the complete story yet
because um I can suggest an additional
kind of
Kernel again it will be
3x3 and this kernel if it is
uh uh sort of
uh programmed to contain this type of um
information um where now the black uh
pixels are like this and the whites are
over there they're kind of a diagonally
uh then we will be able to pick up
probably this feature over here where
the wind screen is uh and so on and so
on so we can actually
uh suggest other kernels as well where
we now have the uh other
diagonal uh these wheels can be detected
by having uh some something else um some
other kind of
Kernel where maybe these guys will be uh
need to be uh sort of colored like this
colored in quotes or program like this
with 255 and zeros uh and as you can
understand all of these uh kernels if
they are uh positioned at some point in
in this kind of image and I'll be
calling now from now on
this aggregation of kernels as a
filter so filter for me will be this
kind of a three-dimensional
structure that it will uh
have 3x3 let's say spatial coordinates
so this is the
3X3
spatial uh let me call it
extent and it would have some kind of a
depth D and this uh depth let's write
depth is of course uh the number of Kels
that I employ in this filter okay so
over here that that is basically um a a
structure that I will see will be a
fairly I call it useful for me to be
able to detect now um pixels uh sorry
features uh from images okay and now
let's uh see the
mathematical um description of what we
have just
described um let me go back to the
site and in that site we have the
so-called two-dimensional the extension
of the so-called two- dimensional
crosscorrelation operation and it's ex
actually shown here in this kind of
image uh this in this picture so we have
an input image of uh uh
3x4
pixels uh and we have a kernel of 2x2 in
this
case and the Kel is going to be
positioned uh on all possible locations
in this uh image in this input image so
in this specific case it is position at
this moment in time uh this location
over here and we are going to be forming
the dot product between the kernel and
the input image and evidently the dot
product is a * W + B * x + e * y + f * z
uh and that will actually be a scalar
that it will give us uh
the feature value extracted feature
value out of that uh operation and we
will do exactly the same same thing over
and over again uh we're going to slide
the kernel into another location bcfg
we'll do the dot product cdgh another
dot product with it and uh to cut a long
story short we are going to be getting a
2x3 output image and from now on we'll
be calling this output images uh input
and output images feature Maps because
they are mapping the features that we
have extracted with with the usage of
kernels here we see just a single kernel
but in general we're going to have
multiple kernels be involved in the
shape and form of
filters uh in in these operations and so
basically this is uh what we will be
doing from now on and uh we will be uh
sort of need to discuss next some uh
architectural elements of uh you know
this that that are sort of uh
encompassing this uh operation over here
but also enhance it with uh further um
correlation type of structures inside
convolution your Networks